README.md, before:

# HYDRA
Decentralized GWAS

## Setup

The recommended setup requires the following:

* Docker
* Bash
* An internet connection
* The two ports `[9001, 9200]` open on your computer
* The Docker network namespaces `[hydra-network, hydra_redis]` available

### Download the image and run a container
This may be the fastest way, given a good network connection between your machine and
the docker hub:

1. `docker pull edolfostanford/hydra`
2. `docker run --name hydra --expose 9001 --hostname hydra -it edolfostanford/hydra bash`

After running this, you should find yourself inside the docker container with a prompt that looks
like this:

```bash
root@hydra:/app#
```

### Build the image yourself

To run the setup first download the binary files (ending with `.so`) from [here](https://console.cloud.google.com/storage/browser/hydra-example-data). Then navigate to this directory and run the following:

`bash up.sh`

(or, if the executable bit is active, `./up.sh`)

This will build your image to include all necessary libraries and runtime requirements. Once the `up.sh` script has completed, you should find yourself inside the docker container with a prompt that looks
like this:

```bash
root@hydra:/app#
```

Additionally, if you run `docker ps`from the host machine, you should see two new containers currently running - one
for HYDRA itself (e.g. `hydra_app_1`), and one for the Redis instance associated with HYDRA (e.g. `hydra_redis_1`). 
    
We use Celery to manage client jobs, and Celery uses Redis as its' communication backbone.

To run the experiments on your dataset, please follow the directions under [data prep](#data-prep-details)

## Tutorial  

The easiest way to familiarize yourself with the pipeline is following the short tutorial in the [example](tree/master/example) file. In this short tutorial, we run a mock GWAS using publicly available 1K genomes data.


## Running the server, client(s), and worker(s)

To connect to a running docker container with a new terminal, assuming the container name is `hydra_app_1`, run:

`docker exec -it hydra_app_1 bash`


#### Running the server
Prerequisites: None

Running the server is as simple as connecting to the `hydra_app` container and executing the following commands:
```bash
cd /app/src
python -m server
```
The response should look something like this:
```bash
root@hydra:/app# cd src
root@hydra:/app/src# python -m server
 * Serving Flask app "__main__" (lazy loading)
 * Environment: production
   WARNING: Do not use the development server in a production environment.
   Use a production WSGI server instead.
 * Debug mode: off
[INFO ] 2019-05-08 23:45:17,569 /usr/local/lib/python3.6/site-packages/werkzeug/_internal.py                     :: 122 =>  * Running on http://0.0.0.0:9001/ (Press CTRL+C to quit)
```

From here you can explore the API on a web browser on the same machine by visiting `http://localhost:9001/api/ui/`

The server invoked without any arguments assumes the default configuration inside [`src/lib/settings.py`](src/lib/settings.py).
These defaults can be overriden by either modifying that file directly, or adding arguments to the command line invocation.
Details can be accessed by calling `python -m server --help`.

#### Running the client
Prerequisites: A running server

On startup, the client registers itself with the server - hence the dependency on a running server.  The
server uses this registration to later send out further tasks to each individual client.  On
client SIGTERM or SIGINT, (e.g. `control + c`) it will attempt to unregister itself from the server.

Starting the client also requires some configuration - For all examples, we assume the client name is `Center1`:

```bash
cd /app/src
python -m client --name=Center1 --plinkfile=/app/testData/dset1 
```

This barebones call assumes the defaults inside [`src/lib/settings.py`](src/lib/settings.py), which can be overwritten
either by the modifying the file, or on the command-line invocation.  Call `python -m client --help` for details.


#### Running the worker
Prerequisites: None

The worker needs to be associated with the client it's serving - this is done by giving both the same
name.  Here we assume the name is `Center1`, which is within the list of clients inside 
[`src/lib/settings.py::ClientHTTP`](src/lib/settings.py).  Any modifications should be reflected within that class.

```bash
cd /app/src
C_FORCE_ROOT=1 celery -A worker worker -Q Center1 -n Center1 --concurrency=1
```

Which results in something like this:

```bash
root@hydra:/app/src# C_FORCE_ROOT=1 celery -A worker worker -Q BioME -n BioME --concurrency=1
/usr/local/lib/python3.6/site-packages/celery/platforms.py:796: RuntimeWarning: You're running the worker with superuser privileges: this is
absolutely not recommended!

Please specify a different user using the --uid option.

User information: uid=0 euid=0 gid=0 egid=0

  uid=uid, euid=euid, gid=gid, egid=egid,

 -------------- celery@BioME v4.2.1 (windowlicker)
---- **** -----
--- * ***  * -- Linux-4.9.125-linuxkit-x86_64-with-debian-9.9 2019-05-08 23:45:30
-- * - **** ---
- ** ---------- [config]
- ** ---------- .> app:         cws_queue:0x7faa3183cef0
- ** ---------- .> transport:   redis://hydra_redis:6379//
- ** ---------- .> results:     redis://hydra_redis:6379/
- *** --- * --- .> concurrency: 1 (prefork)
-- ******* ---- .> task events: OFF (enable -E to monitor tasks in this worker)
--- ***** -----
 -------------- [queues]
                .> BioME            exchange=BioME(direct) key=BioME
```
Because we are running inside a sandboxed Docker environment, we can safely ignore the superuser warning.


#### Creating a distributed system
An example client docker container is created from the `build/docker-compose.yml` file with service name `client`.  This
client will communicate to the server over the docker network called `hydra_network`, thus allowing one to create two
completely separate containers on the same physical machine.

Of course, outside of a testing environment like the one just described, you can simply specify the IP addresses of
each host.

To connect to the client, first run `docker ps`, then use that output to attach to the client container.  In the
following example, we will assume the server has already been started:

```bash
> docker ps
CONTAINER ID        IMAGE               COMMAND                  CREATED             STATUS              PORTS                              NAMES
68996b2109cf        hydra_app           "bash"                   7 minutes ago       Up 7 minutes        0.0.0.0:9001->9001/tcp             hydra_app_1
53fd6c270431        hydra_client        "bash"                   7 minutes ago       Up 3 seconds                                           hydra_client_1

> docker attach hydra_client_1
root@hydra-client:/app# curl hydra_network:9001
{
  "detail": "The requested URL was not found on the server. If you entered the URL manually please check your spelling and try again.",
  "status": 404,
  "title": "Not Found",
  "type": "about:blank"
}
```

The `404` message above is success - it shows we can connect to the server!  For testing purposes, you can add
additional services under the `build/docker-compose.yml` file, or create separate docker containers from the base image;
the implementation is left as an exercise to the reader.

## Performing a GWAS
We will start with an overview of the state machine:

```
+----------+          +------------+           +-----------+
|          |          |            |           |           |
|  Server  |          |  Clients   |           |  Server   |
|          +--------->+            +---------->+           |
|  start   |          |  register  |           |  init     |
|          |          |            |           |           |
+----------+          +------------+           +-----+-----+
                                                     |
                                                     |
     +<----------------------------------------------+
     |
     v
+----+-----+          +-----------+          +-----------+
|          |          |           |          |           |
|          |          |           |          |           |
|    QC    +--------->+    PCA    +--------->+    ASSO   |
|          |          |           |          |           |
|          |          |           |          |           |
+----------+          +-----------+          +-----------+
```

Assuming you want `N` clients, once you see that the server has `N` clients registered,
you will need to sequentially start the tasks `[init, qc, pca, asso]`:

```bash
curl http://localhost:9001/api/tasks/INIT -X POST
curl http://localhost:9001/api/tasks/QC -X POST
curl http://localhost:9001/api/tasks/PCA -X POST
curl http://localhost:9001/api/tasks/ASSO -X POST
```
These tasks can also be started using the UI. 


1\) Initialization: `curl http://localhost:9001/api/tasks/INIT -X POST`

You will need to monitor the server logs to ensure you don't tell the server to start a task before the
preceeding task has completed.  For example, once the initialization task has completed, you should see
a message like the following:

```bash
[INFO ] [...] :: 41 => storing counts
[INFO ] [...] :: 60 => Done getting init reports from clients
[INFO ] [...] :: 61 => Telling clients to store stats
[INFO ] [...] :: 122 => 127.0.0.1 - - [08/May/2019 23:43:18] "POST /api/tasks/INIT/COUNT?client_name=BioME HTTP/1.1" 200 -
```

After which, for each registered client and each chromosome, you should see client responses indicating
they have finished storing their stats, like so:

```bash
[INFO ] [...] :: 45 => [BioME]: Finished with init stats for chrom 20
[INFO ] [...] :: 122 => 172.25.0.1 - - [15/May/2019 22:30:28] "POST /api/clients/BioME/report?status=Finished%20with%20init%20stats%20for%20chrom%2020 HTTP/1.1" 200 -
[INFO ] [...] :: 45 => [BioME]: Finished with init stats for chrom 21
[INFO ] [...] :: 122 => 172.25.0.1 - - [15/May/2019 22:30:29] "POST /api/clients/BioME/report?status=Finished%20with%20init%20stats%20for%20chrom%2021 HTTP/1.1" 200 -
[INFO ] [...] :: 45 => [BioME]: Finished with init stats for chrom 22
[INFO ] [...] :: 122 => 172.25.0.1 - - [15/May/2019 22:30:30] "POST /api/clients/BioME/report?status=Finished%20with%20init%20stats%20for%20chrom%2022 HTTP/1.1" 200 -
```

2\) QC: `curl http://localhost:9001/api/tasks/QC -X POST`

For the QC task, with the `dset1` dataset, you should see the following in the logs of the worker:

```bash
After filtering 20, 67886 snps remain
After filtering 21, 41111 snps remain
After filtering 22, 40898 snps remain

[2019-05-09 01:22:40,433: WARNING/ForkPoolWorker-1] Pefroming QC
[2019-05-09 01:22:40,448: WARNING/ForkPoolWorker-1] After filtering 20, 67886 snps remain
[2019-05-09 01:22:40,509: WARNING/ForkPoolWorker-1] After filtering 21, 41111 snps remain
[2019-05-09 01:22:40,539: WARNING/ForkPoolWorker-1] After filtering 22, 40898 snps remain
[2019-05-09 01:22:40,568: WARNING/ForkPoolWorker-1] Finished reporting counts
```

And in the logs of the server:

```bash
[INFO ] [...] :: 57 => Got task QC/FIN
[INFO ] [...] :: 120 => Done with filtering in QC stage
[INFO ] [...] :: 70 => We can move on
[INFO ] [...] :: 122 => 127.0.0.1 - - [09/May/2019 01:22:40] "POST /api/tasks/QC/FIN?client_name=BioME HTTP/1.1" 200 -
```

3\) PCA: `curl http://localhost:9001/api/tasks/PCA -X POST`

After the PCA task has completed, you should see the following in the logs of the worker:

```bash
[2019-05-15 22:38:31,563: WARNING/ForkPoolWorker-1] Done with LD pruning
[2019-05-15 22:38:36,123: WARNING/ForkPoolWorker-1] Reporting cov: 20_20: (4277, 900) x (900, 4277)
[2019-05-15 22:39:26,014: WARNING/ForkPoolWorker-1] Reporting cov: 21_20: (2806, 900) x (900, 4277)
[2019-05-15 22:39:58,969: WARNING/ForkPoolWorker-1] Reporting cov: 21_21: (2806, 900) x (900, 2806)
[2019-05-15 22:40:25,431: WARNING/ForkPoolWorker-1] Reporting cov: 22_20: (2738, 900) x (900, 4277)
[2019-05-15 22:40:59,882: WARNING/ForkPoolWorker-1] Reporting cov: 22_21: (2738, 900) x (900, 2806)
[2019-05-15 22:41:31,605: WARNING/ForkPoolWorker-1] Reporting cov: 22_22: (2738, 900) x (900, 2738)
[2019-05-15 22:41:54,846: WARNING/ForkPoolWorker-1] Final size will be 9821
```

And in the logs of the server:

```bash
[INFO ] [...] :: 57 => Got task PCA/COV
[INFO ] [...] :: 164 => dealing with 21_21
[INFO ] [...] :: 177 => 21_21
[INFO ] [...] :: 184 => 21_21
[INFO ] [...] :: 186 => Finished storing covariances
[INFO ] [...] :: 122 => 127.0.0.1 - - [09/May/2019 01:33:17] "POST /api/tasks/PCA/COV?client_name=BioME HTTP/1.1" 200 -
```


As the clients perform their tasks, they may send further subtasks to the server - these 
will show up in the server logs, along with the name of the client that sent the task.
Additionally, once the task is completed, the client will send a status update to the
server, which will again show up in the server logs.


## Troubleshooting

1.  Issues with opening or creating a file

    This can happen if you attempt to run initialization a second time without first clearing
    the scratch directory.  Try shutting down the server and all clients, clearing the scratch
    directory, then starting them up again.

<!---
1.  Issues with `lib.corr`

    You can attempt a recompile from within the `build/` directory with the following:

    `python compiler.py build_ext \-\-inplace`

    Then move the compiled file into `src/lib`.
-->

Commit message:

Chained pca process
Features:
    * The entire pca pipeline happens with one command. Later I might split this again for costumizability at each step.

Notes:
    Tutorial has been updated.

README.md, after:

# HYDRA
Decentralized GWAS

## Setup

The recommended setup requires the following:

* Docker
* Bash
* An internet connection
* The two ports `[9001, 9200]` open on your computer
* The Docker network namespaces `[hydra-network, hydra_redis]` available

### Download the image and run a container
This may be the fastest way, given a good network connection between your machine and
the docker hub:


Server side: 
1. `docker pull apoursh/hydra:0.1`
2. `docker network create hydra-network`
3. `docker run --name hydra -p 9001:9001 --hostname hydra -it apoursh/hydra:0.1 bash`


After running step 3, you should find yourself inside the docker container with a prompt that looks
like this:

```bash
root@hydra:/app#
```
On the client side, you will also need to run: `docker network create hydra-redis`

### Build the image yourself

To run the setup first download the binary files (ending with `.so`) from [here](https://console.cloud.google.com/storage/browser/hydra-example-data). Then navigate to this directory and run the following:

`bash up.sh`

(or, if the executable bit is active, `./up.sh`)

This will build your image to include all necessary libraries and runtime requirements. Once the `up.sh` script has completed, you should find yourself inside the docker container with a prompt that looks
like this:

```bash
root@hydra:/app#
```

Additionally, if you run `docker ps`from the host machine, you should see two new containers currently running - one
for HYDRA itself (e.g. `hydra_app_1`), and one for the Redis instance associated with HYDRA (e.g. `hydra_redis_1`). 
    
We use Celery to manage client jobs, and Celery uses Redis as its' communication backbone.

To run the experiments on your dataset, please follow the directions under [data prep](#data-prep-details)

## Tutorial  

The easiest way to familiarize yourself with the pipeline is following the short tutorial in the [example](tree/master/example) file. In this short tutorial, we run a mock GWAS using publicly available 1K genomes data.


## Running the server, client(s), and worker(s)

To connect to a running docker container with a new terminal, assuming the container name is `hydra_app_1`, run:

`docker exec -it hydra_app_1 bash`


#### Running the server
Prerequisites: None

Running the server is as simple as connecting to the `hydra_app` container and executing the following commands:
```bash
cd /app/src
python -m server
```
The response should look something like this:
```bash
root@hydra:/app# cd src
root@hydra:/app/src# python -m server
 * Serving Flask app "__main__" (lazy loading)
 * Environment: production
   WARNING: Do not use the development server in a production environment.
   Use a production WSGI server instead.
 * Debug mode: off
[INFO ] 2019-05-08 23:45:17,569 /usr/local/lib/python3.6/site-packages/werkzeug/_internal.py                     :: 122 =>  * Running on http://0.0.0.0:9001/ (Press CTRL+C to quit)
```

From here you can explore the API on a web browser on the same machine by visiting `http://localhost:9001/api/ui/`

The server invoked without any arguments assumes the default configuration inside [`src/lib/settings.py`](src/lib/settings.py).
These defaults can be overriden by either modifying that file directly, or adding arguments to the command line invocation.
Details can be accessed by calling `python -m server --help`.

#### Running the client
Prerequisites: A running server

On startup, the client registers itself with the server - hence the dependency on a running server.  The
server uses this registration to later send out further tasks to each individual client.  On
client SIGTERM or SIGINT, (e.g. `control + c`) it will attempt to unregister itself from the server.

Starting the client also requires some configuration - For all examples, we assume the client name is `Center1`:

```bash
cd /app/src
python -m client --name=Center1 --plinkfile=/app/testData/dset1 
```

This barebones call assumes the defaults inside [`src/lib/settings.py`](src/lib/settings.py), which can be overwritten
either by the modifying the file, or on the command-line invocation.  Call `python -m client --help` for details.


#### Running the worker
Prerequisites: None

The worker needs to be associated with the client it's serving - this is done by giving both the same
name.  Here we assume the name is `Center1`, which is within the list of clients inside 
[`src/lib/settings.py::ClientHTTP`](src/lib/settings.py).  Any modifications should be reflected within that class.

```bash
cd /app/src
C_FORCE_ROOT=1 celery -A worker worker -Q Center1 -n Center1 --concurrency=1
```

Which results in something like this:

```bash
root@hydra:/app/src# C_FORCE_ROOT=1 celery -A worker worker -Q BioME -n BioME --concurrency=1
/usr/local/lib/python3.6/site-packages/celery/platforms.py:796: RuntimeWarning: You're running the worker with superuser privileges: this is
absolutely not recommended!

Please specify a different user using the --uid option.

User information: uid=0 euid=0 gid=0 egid=0

  uid=uid, euid=euid, gid=gid, egid=egid,

 -------------- celery@BioME v4.2.1 (windowlicker)
---- **** -----
--- * ***  * -- Linux-4.9.125-linuxkit-x86_64-with-debian-9.9 2019-05-08 23:45:30
-- * - **** ---
- ** ---------- [config]
- ** ---------- .> app:         cws_queue:0x7faa3183cef0
- ** ---------- .> transport:   redis://hydra_redis:6379//
- ** ---------- .> results:     redis://hydra_redis:6379/
- *** --- * --- .> concurrency: 1 (prefork)
-- ******* ---- .> task events: OFF (enable -E to monitor tasks in this worker)
--- ***** -----
 -------------- [queues]
                .> BioME            exchange=BioME(direct) key=BioME
```
Because we are running inside a sandboxed Docker environment, we can safely ignore the superuser warning.


#### Creating a distributed system
An example client docker container is created from the `build/docker-compose.yml` file with service name `client`.  This
client will communicate to the server over the docker network called `hydra_network`, thus allowing one to create two
completely separate containers on the same physical machine.

Of course, outside of a testing environment like the one just described, you can simply specify the IP addresses of
each host.

To connect to the client, first run `docker ps`, then use that output to attach to the client container.  In the
following example, we will assume the server has already been started:

```bash
> docker ps
CONTAINER ID        IMAGE               COMMAND                  CREATED             STATUS              PORTS                              NAMES
68996b2109cf        hydra_app           "bash"                   7 minutes ago       Up 7 minutes        0.0.0.0:9001->9001/tcp             hydra_app_1
53fd6c270431        hydra_client        "bash"                   7 minutes ago       Up 3 seconds                                           hydra_client_1

> docker attach hydra_client_1
root@hydra-client:/app# curl hydra_network:9001
{
  "detail": "The requested URL was not found on the server. If you entered the URL manually please check your spelling and try again.",
  "status": 404,
  "title": "Not Found",
  "type": "about:blank"
}
```

The `404` message above is success - it shows we can connect to the server!  For testing purposes, you can add
additional services under the `build/docker-compose.yml` file, or create separate docker containers from the base image;
the implementation is left as an exercise to the reader.

## Performing a GWAS
We will start with an overview of the state machine:

```
+----------+          +------------+           +-----------+
|          |          |            |           |           |
|  Server  |          |  Clients   |           |  Server   |
|          +--------->+            +---------->+           |
|  start   |          |  register  |           |  init     |
|          |          |            |           |           |
+----------+          +------------+           +-----+-----+
                                                     |
                                                     |
     +<----------------------------------------------+
     |
     v
+----+-----+          +-----------+          +-----------+
|          |          |           |          |           |
|          |          |           |          |           |
|    QC    +--------->+    PCA    +--------->+    ASSO   |
|          |          |           |          |           |
|          |          |           |          |           |
+----------+          +-----------+          +-----------+
```

Assuming you want `N` clients, once you see that the server has `N` clients registered,
you will need to sequentially start the tasks `[init, qc, pca, asso]`:

```bash
curl http://localhost:9001/api/tasks/INIT -X POST
curl http://localhost:9001/api/tasks/QC -X POST
curl http://localhost:9001/api/tasks/PCA -X POST
curl http://localhost:9001/api/tasks/ASSO -X POST
```
These tasks can also be started using the UI. 


1\) Initialization: `curl http://localhost:9001/api/tasks/INIT -X POST`

You will need to monitor the server logs to ensure you don't tell the server to start a task before the
preceeding task has completed.  For example, once the initialization task has completed, you should see
a message like the following:

```bash
[INFO ] [...] :: 41 => storing counts
[INFO ] [...] :: 60 => Done getting init reports from clients
[INFO ] [...] :: 61 => Telling clients to store stats
[INFO ] [...] :: 122 => 127.0.0.1 - - [08/May/2019 23:43:18] "POST /api/tasks/INIT/COUNT?client_name=BioME HTTP/1.1" 200 -
```

After which, for each registered client and each chromosome, you should see client responses indicating
they have finished storing their stats, like so:

```bash
[INFO ] [...] :: 45 => [BioME]: Finished with init stats for chrom 20
[INFO ] [...] :: 122 => 172.25.0.1 - - [15/May/2019 22:30:28] "POST /api/clients/BioME/report?status=Finished%20with%20init%20stats%20for%20chrom%2020 HTTP/1.1" 200 -
[INFO ] [...] :: 45 => [BioME]: Finished with init stats for chrom 21
[INFO ] [...] :: 122 => 172.25.0.1 - - [15/May/2019 22:30:29] "POST /api/clients/BioME/report?status=Finished%20with%20init%20stats%20for%20chrom%2021 HTTP/1.1" 200 -
[INFO ] [...] :: 45 => [BioME]: Finished with init stats for chrom 22
[INFO ] [...] :: 122 => 172.25.0.1 - - [15/May/2019 22:30:30] "POST /api/clients/BioME/report?status=Finished%20with%20init%20stats%20for%20chrom%2022 HTTP/1.1" 200 -
```

2\) QC: `curl http://localhost:9001/api/tasks/QC -X POST`

For the QC task, with the `dset1` dataset, you should see the following in the logs of the worker:

```bash
After filtering 20, 67886 snps remain
After filtering 21, 41111 snps remain
After filtering 22, 40898 snps remain

[2019-05-09 01:22:40,433: WARNING/ForkPoolWorker-1] Pefroming QC
[2019-05-09 01:22:40,448: WARNING/ForkPoolWorker-1] After filtering 20, 67886 snps remain
[2019-05-09 01:22:40,509: WARNING/ForkPoolWorker-1] After filtering 21, 41111 snps remain
[2019-05-09 01:22:40,539: WARNING/ForkPoolWorker-1] After filtering 22, 40898 snps remain
[2019-05-09 01:22:40,568: WARNING/ForkPoolWorker-1] Finished reporting counts
```

And in the logs of the server:

```bash
[INFO ] [...] :: 57 => Got task QC/FIN
[INFO ] [...] :: 120 => Done with filtering in QC stage
[INFO ] [...] :: 70 => We can move on
[INFO ] [...] :: 122 => 127.0.0.1 - - [09/May/2019 01:22:40] "POST /api/tasks/QC/FIN?client_name=BioME HTTP/1.1" 200 -
```

3\) PCA: `curl http://localhost:9001/api/tasks/PCA -X POST`

After the PCA task has completed, you should see the following in the logs of the worker:

```bash
[2019-05-15 22:38:31,563: WARNING/ForkPoolWorker-1] Done with LD pruning
[2019-05-15 22:38:36,123: WARNING/ForkPoolWorker-1] Reporting cov: 20_20: (4277, 900) x (900, 4277)
[2019-05-15 22:39:26,014: WARNING/ForkPoolWorker-1] Reporting cov: 21_20: (2806, 900) x (900, 4277)
[2019-05-15 22:39:58,969: WARNING/ForkPoolWorker-1] Reporting cov: 21_21: (2806, 900) x (900, 2806)
[2019-05-15 22:40:25,431: WARNING/ForkPoolWorker-1] Reporting cov: 22_20: (2738, 900) x (900, 4277)
[2019-05-15 22:40:59,882: WARNING/ForkPoolWorker-1] Reporting cov: 22_21: (2738, 900) x (900, 2806)
[2019-05-15 22:41:31,605: WARNING/ForkPoolWorker-1] Reporting cov: 22_22: (2738, 900) x (900, 2738)
[2019-05-15 22:41:54,846: WARNING/ForkPoolWorker-1] Final size will be 9821
```

And in the logs of the server:

```bash
[INFO ] [...] :: 57 => Got task PCA/COV
[INFO ] [...] :: 164 => dealing with 21_21
[INFO ] [...] :: 177 => 21_21
[INFO ] [...] :: 184 => 21_21
[INFO ] [...] :: 186 => Finished storing covariances
[INFO ] [...] :: 122 => 127.0.0.1 - - [09/May/2019 01:33:17] "POST /api/tasks/PCA/COV?client_name=BioME HTTP/1.1" 200 -
```


As the clients perform their tasks, they may send further subtasks to the server - these 
will show up in the server logs, along with the name of the client that sent the task.
Additionally, once the task is completed, the client will send a status update to the
server, which will again show up in the server logs.


## Troubleshooting

1.  Issues with opening or creating a file

    This can happen if you attempt to run initialization a second time without first clearing
    the scratch directory.  Try shutting down the server and all clients, clearing the scratch
    directory, then starting them up again.

<!---
1.  Issues with `lib.corr`

    You can attempt a recompile from within the `build/` directory with the following:

    `python compiler.py build_ext \-\-inplace`

    Then move the compiled file into `src/lib`.
-->
